h1. Installation

h2. Overview

Chicago Boss generally won't be installed to your system (/usr/local etc.). All of the work occurs in user-land. You'll download a release, and then use it to generate projects.

h2. Chicago Boss Requirements

Install "Erlang R13A or later":http://www.erlang.org/download.html

* Check with @erlang:system_info(otp_release)@.
* On Windows Vista or Windows 7 -
** you need install win openSSl (http://www.slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html)
** make mochiweb with msys or cygwin
* On all windows 
** Download and build rebar(http://alancastro.org/2010/05/01/erlang-application-management-with-rebar.html), then add it to your path and use it instead of the version included with ChicagoBoss.

h2. Download a Chicago Boss Release

"Download a release":https://github.com/evanmiller/ChicagoBoss/downloads

h2. Compile It

Build Chicago Boss with

<pre><code>
make
</code></pre>

h2. Generate A Project

To create a project in the parent directory, simply type

<pre><code>
make app PROJECT=my_new_project
</code></pre>

(Project names must start with a lowercase letter.) Then cruise over to it and start up the server:

<pre><code>
cd ../my_new_project
./init-dev.sh
</code></pre>

(On Windows, execute @start-dev.bat@ instead of @start-dev.sh@.)

There will be a lot of PROGRESS REPORTs which look scary but hopefully everything is running smoothly. With this console you can interact directly with the running server. 

h2. Enjoy

Point your browser to http://localhost:8001/

If all is well you will see a forbidding error message about the requested template -- not to worry, the new project is empty so there is nothing to serve!

Next steps:
* Install the [[Admin Interface]]
* [[Application Architecture]]
* [[Example Application]]
* [[Configuration]]
* [[An Evening With Chicago Boss]]
* "Chicago Boss API docs":/embedded/chicagoboss/api.html